# Angular 2 Tutorial using Angular CLI and Angular 2 Material

##Overview
This very simple application is my attempt at teaching myself Angular 2 using Angular CLI and Angular 2 Material. I attempt to copy the format of the popular AngularJS Phone Catalog tutorial and do a similar step-by-step Angular 2 application. This application will eventually become a manageable (CRUD) list of Game Thrones characters.

##Prerequisites 
- Git
- Nodejs 4.x or later
- NPM 3.x.x or later

##Commits/Tutorial Outline
You can check out any point of the tutorial using:
```
git checkout step-?
```

###step-01
This project was generated with [angular-cli](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 1.0.0-beta.15. This step contains an empty angular2 project generated by angular-cli

#### Development server
Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

#### Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive/pipe/service/class`.

#### Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `-prod` flag for a production build.

#### Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

#### Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/). 
Before running the tests make sure you are serving the app via `ng serve`.

#### Further help

To get more help on the `angular-cli` use `ng --help` or go check out the [Angular-CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).

###step-02
Create components which will be responsible for the CRUD operations of characters. These components will belong to a parent `CharacterComponent`. 

The `CharacterComponent` will have the following child components:
- `CharacterAddComponent` form to add characters  and can be reached via the route `/characters/add`
- `CharacterDetailComponent` component to view details of character and can be reached via the route `/characters/:id` where `:id` is the id of the character. 
- `CharacterEditComponent` edit functionality of a character will be handled by this component and can be reached via the route `/characters/edit:id` where `:id` is the id of the character. 
- `CharacterListComponent` this component will be responsible for displaying a list of characters and can be reached via the route `/characters/:id`

NOTE: The generated components will always have
- `component.css` file for component styles
- `component.html` file for the components template
- `component.ts` file for the components logic
- `component.spec.ts` file for the unit tests

The components were created using the following commands. 
```
ng g c character
ng g c character/character-add
ng g c character/character-list
ng g c character/character-detail 
ng g c character/character-edit
```

We will also have a module class
- `CharacterModule` [NgModules](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/ngmodule.html) class that tells Anglar how to compile and run the `character` module code.


Create a `CharacterModule` class using `ng g m character`. Take a look at the Angular documentation on [NgModules](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/ngmodule.html) to understand why we use modules. It is basically a class that tells Anglar how to compile and run the `character` module code.

As well as a router
- `character.routing.ts` a file that defines the routing for the `character` components
Create a new file called `character.routing.ts`. `angular-cli` does not support generating routes while this section.

